---
layout: post
title:  "Rethinking Network Design and Local Geometry in Point Cloud: A Simple Residual MLP Framework"
date:   2022-1-28
categories: jekyll update
tags: publication
image: /assets/posts/pointmlp.png
publish:  "ICLR2022"
pdf: "https://openreview.net/pdf?id=3Pbra-_u76D"
openreview: "https://openreview.net/forum?id=3Pbra-_u76D"
code:  "https://github.com/13952522076/pointMLP-pytorch"
author:  Xu Ma, Can Qin, Haoxuan You, <b>Haoxi Ran</b>, Yun Fu
comment:  We present a novel perspective on the task of point cloud analysis by introducing a pure-MLP, simple yet effective residual network, called PointMLP.
---

## Authors
Xu Ma, Can Qin, Haoxuan You, **Haoxi Ran**, Yun Fu

## Abstraction
Point cloud analysis is challenging due to irregularity and unordered data structure. 
To capture the 3D geometries, prior works mainly rely on exploring sophisticated local 
geometric extractors, using convolution, graph, or attention mechanisms. These methods, 
however, incur unfavorable latency during inference and the performance saturates over 
the past few years. In this paper, we present a novel perspective on this task. We find 
detailed local geometrical information probably is not the key to point cloud analysis – 
we introduce a pure residual MLP network, called PointMLP, which integrates no local 
geometrical extractors but still performs very competitively. Equipped with a proposed 
lightweight geometric-affine module to stabilize the training, PointMLP delivers the 
new state-of-the-art on multiple datasets. On the real-world ScanObjectNN dataset, our 
method even surpasses the prior best method by 3.3% accuracy. We emphasize PointMLP 
achieves this strong performance without any sophisticated operations, hence leading 
to a prominent inference speed. Compared to most recent CurveNet, PointMLP trains 2× 
faster, tests 7× faster, and is more accurate on ModelNet40 benchmark. We hope our 
PointMLP may help the community towards a better understanding of point cloud analysis.
